this short lesson shows the use of
chromatic scales as part of your
improvisation sequence the first thing
you need to do is play something to
improvise over and in this case it's a C
7th - a G 7th chord but only part of the
chord that is the 3rd and the 7th of
each chord you do not want a big Fistful
of chord because the more notes that you
have in the chord behind the
improvisation the less flexible you can
be with the notes that you put in during
the improvisation the bass line will
take care of the root notes of the chord
but in this case I'm not playing the
bass pedals playing bass pedals will be
covered in a later lesson a great
practice aid is iReal be application
that runs on an ipod and it allows you
to put in backing tracks or you can type
in your own sequences it also allows you
to repeat the sequence up to 30 times so
you can just leave it running and
practice away to your heart's content
start the rhythm with the left hand and
then play chromatic scales with your
right hand
at first play ordinary chromatic scales
of renown the keyboard select the speed
that you comfortable with the fingering
for the chromatic scales is clearly
shown here a lot of jazz and blues licks
a chromatic scales with certain notes
missed out or repeated it's a good idea
at this stage to try fitting in the
figure that I showed you in the last
lesson
during this practice session against the
two cards it's a good idea to use what
is known as a blue scale blue scale bean
C B flat G F sharp and E flat C practice
is slowly at first then attempt to speed
it open it's most important to be
accurate on these rules and Bill's think
about Hammond organs it's interesting
the improvisation style very relative to
the sound that you have on the keyboard
this is the stereotypical Jimmy Smith
sound you hear with the first three draw
bars all the way out third harmonic
percussion would castigate on percussion
volume soft not forgetting the wonderful
rebirth of chorus in the c3 position
this Hammond has just been played in my
studio so it doesn't really have the
volume level required to make it distort
and I wish to go deaf of the stage it
played fairly quietly when you crank it
up then it has all the rest of the
niceness of now unknown or nastiness
depending on which way you look at it
thanks for watching hope it's been of
some use to you